This is a simple example showing how to create a NURBS surface from a
set of contours using Cubit. The simplest way to create a surface from
a set of contours is to use them to create a skin surface (see Cubit
documentation). Note that this example is pertinent to a set of
semi-parallel truncated contours. The example defines the subduction
interface for the Hikurangi subduction zone, New Zealand, rotated so
the subduction zone is oriented approximately N-S.  There are three
steps to creating the NURBS surface. The first step is probably not
needed in many cases.

1. In the original data file (hikurangi_shiftrot.txt) many of the
internal contours are truncated, segmented, or incomplete. A Python
script (fill_contours.py) fills in the missing contour sections,
assuming that the first and last contours are complete. The parameters
to control this script are in the file 'fill_contours.cfg'. Once the
parameters have been set, the script can be run by simply typing:

./fill_contours.py

This creates a new file named 'hikurangi_shiftrot_fill.txt'. Note that
this script is very unsophisticated and relies on the contours having
an approximate N-S orientation.

2.  Once we have a complete set of contours, we convert them to spline
curve definitions that may be used by Cubit using the Python script,
cont2lines.py; the parameters are set in the file
'cont2lines.cfg'. The Python script will create a separate spline
curve Cubit command for each contour in the journal directory. It will
also create a main Cubit journal file (hikurangi_mksurf.jou) that will
playback all the journal files in the journal directory and then
create a skin surface using Cubit (see Cubit documentation).

3.  We then just run Cubit and playback the hikurangi_mksurf.jou file
to create an ACIS NURBS surface (hikurangi_sub_geom.sab).

Once the NURBS surface has been created, it may be used in future
Cubit sessions by importing it:

import acis 'hikurangi_sub_geom.sab'
