#LyX 1.5.6 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 276
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\begin_preamble

\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding latin1
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 2in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Preface
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
About This Document
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This document is organized into two parts.
 The first part begins with an introduction to PyLith and discusses the
 types of problems that PyLith can solve and how to run the software; the
 second part provides appendices and references.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Who Will Use This Documentation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This documentation is aimed at two categories of users: scientists who prefer
 to use prepackaged and specialized analysis tools, and experienced computationa
l Earth scientists.
 Of the latter, there are likely to be two classes of users: those who just
 run models, and those who modify the source code.
 Users who modify the source are likely to have familiarity with scripting,
 software installation, and programming, but are not necessarily professional
 programmers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Citation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The 
\begin_inset LatexCommand htmlurl
name "Computational Infrastructure for Geodynamics (CIG)"
target "geodynamics.org"

\end_inset

 is making this source code available to you at no cost in hopes that the
 software will enhance your research in geophysics.
 A number of individuals have contributed a significant portion of their
 careers toward the development of this software.
 It is essential that you recognize these individuals in the normal scientific
 practice by citing the appropriate peer-reviewed papers and making appropriate
 acknowledgements in talks and publications.
 At this time there are no refereed journal articles discussing the design
 and implementation of PyLith, so we request that you cite three AGU meeting
 abstracts associated with PyLith:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Williams, C.A., B.
 Aagaard, M.G.
 Knepley (2005), Development of software for studying earthquakes across
 multiple spatial and temporal scales by coupling quasi-static and dynamic
 simulations, 
\emph on
Eos Trans.
 AGU, 86
\emph default
(52), Fall Meet.
 Suppl., Abstract S53A-1072.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Williams, C.A.
 (2006), Development of a package for modeling stress in the lithosphere,
 
\emph on
Eos Trans.
 AGU, 87
\emph default
(36), Jt.
 Assem.
 Suppl., Abstract T24A-01 Invited.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Aagaard, B., C.
 Williams, M.
 Knepley (2007), PyLith: A finite-element code for modeling quasi-static
 and dynamic crustal deformation, 
\emph on
Eos Trans.
 AGU, 8
\emph default
8(52), Fall Meet.
 Suppl., Abstract T21B-0592.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To cite this manual, use:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Aagaard, B., S.
 Kientz, M.
 Knepley, L.
 Strand, and C.
 Williams.
 
\emph on
PyLith User Manual, Version 1.4.

\emph default
 Pasadena, CA: Computational Infrastructure of Geodynamics, 2008.
 URL: geodynamics.org/cig/software/
\newline
short/pylith/pylith_book-1.4.pdf
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Support
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Current PyLith development is supported by the 
\begin_inset LatexCommand htmlurl
name "Southern California Earthquake Center"
target "www.scec.org"

\end_inset

, the 
\begin_inset LatexCommand htmlurl
name "National Science Foundation"
target "www.nsf.gov"

\end_inset

, the CIG, and internal 
\begin_inset LatexCommand htmlurl
name "U.S. Geological Survey"
target "www.usgs.gov"

\end_inset

 funding.
 Pyre development is funded by the 
\begin_inset LatexCommand htmlurl
name "Department of Energy's"
target "www.doe.gov/engine/content.do"

\end_inset

 Advanced Simulation and Computing program and the National Science Foundation's
 Information Technology Research (ITR) program.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation
 under Grant No.
 0313238.
 Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in
 this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect
 the views of the National Science Foundation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Request for Comments
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Your suggestions and corrections can only improve this documentation.
 Please report any errors, inaccuracies, or typos to 
\begin_inset LatexCommand url
name "Sue Kientz"
target "sue@geodynamics.org"

\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
