#LyX 1.4.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 245
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\begin_preamble

\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding latin1
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 2in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Tutorials
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Overview
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Each tutorial is a self-contained lesson in how to use PyLith.
 The tutorials increase in degree of complexity from one to the next.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Prerequisites
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Before you begin any of the tutorials, you will need to install PyLith following
 the instructions in Chapter\InsetSpace ~

\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{cha:Installation-and-Getting}

\end_inset

.
 In order to work through a full tutorial, in addition to 
\family typewriter
\color black
PyLith
\family default
\color none
 you will need 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \htmlurl[NETGEN]{www.hpfem.jku.at/netgen/}

\end_inset

 to generate the mesh and 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \htmlurl[ParaView]{www.paraview.org}

\end_inset

 to view simulation results.
 You may use other packages, but some adaption from what is described here
 will be necessary.
 Alternatively, you can complete a subset of the tutorial using files provided
 (as described below), skipping the steps for which you do not have the
 proper software packages installed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The files needed to work through the tutorials have been collected into
 a single tarball.
 Each tutorial contains instructions for downloading and unpacking the tutorial
 tarball.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Tutor
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Each tutorial includes a simple Python script, 
\family typewriter
\color black
tutor.py
\family default
\color none
, to help with miscellaneous tasks, such as copying provided files into
 a working directory.
 This script can (1) check to make sure the files necessary for a given
 step in the tutorial exist, (2) retrieve any missing files from the tutorial
 archive directory that are needed for a given step, or (3) prepare the
 work area for a given step by removing old files that would otherwise be
 overwritten.
 You can run 
\family typewriter
\color black
tutor.py
\family default
\color none
 with the 
\family typewriter
\color black
-h
\family default
\color none
 option for more information.
 We will use this script at the beginning of each step of the tutorials
 to retrieve files as necessary from the tutorial archive directory.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote

\series bold
TIP:
\series default
 When retrieving files from the archive directory, 
\family typewriter
\color black
tutor.py
\family default
\color none
 will not overwrite files that already exist in the workarea directory.
 This means that if you mangle files in the working area, you should remove
 them and let the tutor retrieve clean copies.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Include \input{splitcube/splitcube.lyx}
preview false

\end_inset

 
\begin_inset Include \input{reversenog/reversenog.lyx}
preview false

\end_inset

 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
